# student_25308.Ca2_MovieBookingApp
Continuous Assessment 2 for Mobile App 1 Module 

Name: Amara Pedroza Terrazas

Student ID:25308

Module : Mobile App 1 – BSC20921

Lecturer Name: Saravanabalagi Ramachandran

# Requirements Checklist

1. Movie recycler view:

  - [x] Create a Movie class with the structure specified in movie.json
  
  - [x] Obtain and fill data (minimum of 4 movies)
  
    - [x] Obtain relevant movie data from Vue (https://www.myvue.com/cinema/dublin/whats-on) or your favourite provider and add data credits at the bottom of the app
    
    - [x] Generate a random number between 0 and 15 for each movie and assign to seats_remaining
    
    - [x] Start with an initial default seats_selected value of 0 for all movies
    
    - [x] You shall fill random URLs for images from pixabay or other free image providers to begin with
    
  - [x] Build a Recycler View using the specified template, refer to recycler_view_template_*.jpg
  
  - [x] If any seats are selected, show how many seats are selected and hide remaining seats
  
2. Seat selection feature:
I didn't understand what was supposed to do the new Movie Activity
  - [] Clicking any item (anywhere on the item) on the movie recycler view should open a new MovieActivity, refer to movie_activity_*.jpg -----No
  - [x]   Add plus and minus icons, show seats_selected in the middle (done it in one activity)
  - [x] On click plus/minus, update both seats_selected and seats_remaining for that movie
  - [x] Add validation, when 0 seats selected minus is disabled, when 0 seats remaining plus is disabled
  - []  When back is pressed, the selected seats are retained and reflected in the recycler view. (Hint: If you don’t see any updates, call adapter notifyDatasetChanged as soon as you return to the recycler view activity)
  
3. Bonus:
  - [x] Add "filling fast" badge if less than 3 seats remaining
  - [x] Use "Roboto Condensed" font to replicate same style
  - [x] Use original movie images from myvue.com or your favourite provider (Hint: check get_movie_image_url.gif)

# Extra features implemented
    - certification created with a textview, base on the certification the circle change to the correct color
    - 3 diferent ways to import images were used. 


# Report 

The second course helped me to put into practice what I learned in class. 
It took me a long time to finish the application ( approx 15 hours.) Although,  I think the result is positive. 
I had trouble understanding the requirements. I think it contradicts itself even though it has reference images. 

The first step was to create a data class Movie. The class movie calculates the random seat number ( from 0 to 15 ) and initiates the selected seats to zero. 
Afterward, the movies_recyler_ template was designed using the font Roboto condensed. 
Six movies were implemented. The data was filled with the resources provided by myvue.com. 
Firstly the images were randomly generated by using thisartworkdoesnotexist.com/. Later on, some images were directly imported to the drawable resources. In the end, I preferred to use the address of each image, to download directly from the internet ( myvue.com resource). 

Three classes were used Movie, Movie adapter, and Main Activity. Two layout resources were used; Activity_main and movies_recyler template.

In order to make the circles of the movie classification, I decided to use a text view in the form of a circle, and according to the given String, the color tint changes according to what is required. This was complicated because I could not change the background, without the circle disappearing. 

Some functions are not visible, but they are in the code uncommented because this affected the functionality. For example, when seats are selected the visibility of the available seats disappears completely. 
In the release of the application, it changes color and changes the text. 

In the application, the user can select the number of seats and the functionalities that are established in the requirements that were implemented. 

This project was really helpful to understand the concepts learned. In future works, I will try to organize better the code and add more comments. 



# References 
        * images and content  https://www.myvue.com/cinema/dublin/whats-on
        * Kotlin Android Picasso ImageLoader   https://camposha.info/android-examples/android-picasso/#gsc.tab=0
        * *Change Tint Color for an Image  https://www.jigopost.com/change-tint-color-for-image-in-android/
        * generate random image  https://thisartworkdoesnotexist.com/
       
